# Data Visualization Exercise 1: General Government Debt
## Original Visualization from the website
This visualization was posted on the website, OECD, to showcase the general government debt for various countries. I chose the year of 2016 as I like the general trend of the bar graph, and I believe it showcases some interesting data. The bar graph created by the website allows a clear comparison of the government debt between various countries, as well as their relevent rank in that specific year. The length of the bar graph along with how each bar is placed next to each other allow readers to see the differences of government debt for each country immediately. However, this visuallization makes it difficult to understand the trend across different years as it only shows the data for Year 2016. 
<iframe src="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6gKv" width="860" height="645" style="border: 0" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" allowfullscreen="true"><a href="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6gKv" target="_blank">OECD Chart: General government debt, Total, % of GDP, Annual, 2016</a></iframe>

## Experimental Redesign 1
Here I recreated a grid line charts visualization using the same general government debt data. This exercise was mainly to help me explore the Flourish Studio tool. This visualization serves a different purpose from the original one, where rather than comparing the relative government debt with different countries, it splits each country up as an individual graph and focuses on the trend of government debt over the years. This visualization can be useful when people want to understand how a specific country's government debt is changing over the years. However, as each country is presented with its own grid of line chart, shown in the graph below, it is difficult to compare each country's government debt in relation to other countries. 
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/5287101"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

## Experimental Redesign 2
This visualization I created illustrates the range of government debt for by countries. Similar to the original bar graph from the website, this chart includes the comparison of government debt between different countries. But instead of only showcasing the data for a particular year, I included all of the past government debt for each country and a range is ultimatley created. So unlike the orginial bar graph, this visualization focuses on showing the range of past government debt and its comparison with other countries. This type of visualization allows people to see which country has the largest range of government debt, which has the shortest, and etc. Unlike the grid line charts, it doesn't lists out the government debt by years, and so one downside of this visualization is that people would not know which year the government debt is from. Therefore, the main purpose of this visualization would not focused on the year, but instead the overall range of government debt. I chose to create such graph as I want to show a different visualization using the same data, but in a more generalized setting. 

I deliberately made all of the lines the same color to avoid the overwhelming rainbow effect. The color gold is used to symbolize the money "gold", but I also made sure such color is dark enough for readers to see and understand the data clearly. Furthermore, I included gridlines for both x- and y-axis hoping to ensure easy tracking of each line. Lastly, I did not include dots for each datapoint because many of the points would overlap each other, making the visualization extremely complicated. As I learned from the Good Chart that it is best to keep things simple and succinct, I ended up displaying only the range of government debt to keep the visualization clean and neat. The individual data point can be viewed when people put the cursor across the range.

<div class="flourish-embed flourish-scatter" data-src="visualisation/5294484"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>


[Back to main portfolio page](/README.md)
